You now know pretty much all
the building blocks of building
a full convolutional neural network.
Let's look at an example.
Let's say you're inputting
an image which is 32 x 32 x 3, so
it's an RGB image and maybe you're trying
to do handwritten digit recognition.
So you have a number like 7 in
a 32 x 32 RGB initiate trying
to recognize which one of the 10
digits from zero to nine is this.
Let's throw the neural network to do this.
And what I'm going to use
in this slide is inspired,
it's actually quite similar to one of the
classic neural networks called LeNet-5,
which is created by
Yann LeCun many years ago.
What I'll show here isn't
exactly LeNet-5 but
it's inspired by it, but many
parameter choices were inspired by it.
So with a 32 x 32 x 3 input
let's say that the first
layer uses a 5 x 5 filter and
a stride of 1, and no padding.
So the output of this layer,
if you use 6 filters would be 28 x 28 x 6,
and we're going to call this layer conv 1.
So you apply 6 filters, add a bias,
apply the non-linearity,
maybe a real non-linearity,
and that's the conv 1 output.
Next, let's apply a pooling layer, so
I am going to apply mass pooling here and
let's use a f=2, s=2.
When I don't write a padding
use a pad easy with a 0.
Next let's apply a pooling layer,
I am going to apply,
let's see max pooling with a 2 x
2 filter and the stride equals 2.
So this is should reduce the height and
width of the representation
by a factor of 2.
So 28 x 28 now becomes 14 x 14, and
the number of channels remains the same so
14 x 14 x 6,
and we're going to call
this the Pool 1 output.
So, it turns out that in the literature
of a ConvNet there are two
conventions which are inside the
inconsistent about what you call a layer.
One convention is that
this is called one layer.
So this will be layer one of the neural
network, and now the conversion
will be to call they convey layer as
a layer and the pool layer as a layer.
When people report the number of layers
in a neural network usually people just
record the number of layers that
have weight, that have parameters.
And because the pooling layer has
no weights, has no parameters,
only a few hyper parameters, I'm going to
use a convention that Conv 1 and
Pool 1 shared together.
I'm going to treat that as Layer 1,
although sometimes you see people maybe
read articles online and read research
papers, you hear about the conv layer and
the pooling layer as if they
are two separate layers.
But this is maybe two slightly
inconsistent notation terminologies,
but when I count layers, I'm just
going to count layers that have weights.
So achieve both of this
together as Layer 1.
And the name Conv1 and
Pool1 use here the 1 at the end also
refers the fact that I view both of this
is part of Layer 1 of the neural network.
And Pool 1 is grouped into Layer 1
because it doesn't have its own weights.
Next, given a 14 x 14 bx 6 volume,
let's apply another
convolutional layer to it,
let's use a filter size that's 5 x 5,
and let's use a stride of 1, and
let's use 10 filters this time.
So now you end up with, A 10 x 10
x 10 volume, so I'll call this Comv 2,
and then in this network let's do max
pulling with f=2, s=2 again.
So you could probably guess
the output of this, f=2,
s=2, this should reduce the height and
width by a factor of 2, so
you're left with 5 x 5 x 10.
And so I'm going to call this Pool 2, and
in our convention this is
Layer 2 of the neural network.
Now let's apply another
convolutional layer to this.
I'm going to use a 5 x 5 filter,
so f = 5, and let's try this,
1, and I don't write the padding,
means there's no padding.
And this will give you the Conv 2 output,
and that's your 16 filters.
So this would be a 10 x 10
x 16 dimensional output.
So we look at that, and
this is the Conv 2 layer.
And then let's apply max
pooling to this with f=2, s=2.
You can probably guess the output of this,
we're at 10 x 10 x 16 with
max pooling with f=2, s=2.
This will half the height and
width, you can probably guess
the result of this, right?
Left pooling with f = 2, s = 2.
This should halve the height and
width so you end up with
a 5 x 5 x 16 volume,
same number of channels as before.
We're going to call this Pool 2.
And in our convention this
is Layer 2 because this
has one set of weights and
your Conv 2 layer.
Now 5 x 5 x 16,
5 x 5 x 16 is equal to 400.
So let's now fatten our Pool 2
into a 400 x 1 dimensional vector.
So think of this as fatting this up
into these set of neurons, like so.
And what we're going to do is
then take these 400 units and
let's build the next layer,
As having 120 units.
So this is actually our
first fully connected layer.
I'm going to call this FC3 because we have
400 units densely connected to 120 units.
So this fully connected unit,
this fully connected layer is just like
the single neural network layer
that you saw in Courses 1 and 2.
This is just a standard
neural network where you have
a weight matrix that's called
W3 of dimension 120 x 400.
And this is fully connected because
each of the 400 units here is connected
to each of the 120 units here, and
you also have the bias parameter,
yes that's going to be just a 120
dimensional, this is 120 outputs.
And then lastly let's take 120 units and
add another layer,
this time smaller but
let's say we had 84 units here,
I'm going to call this
fully connected Layer 4.
And finally we now have 84 real numbers
that you can fit to a [INAUDIBLE] unit.
And if you're trying to do
handwritten digital recognition,
to recognize this hand it is 0,
1, 2, and so on up to 9.
Then this would be
a softmax with 10 outputs.
So this is a vis-a-vis
typical example of what
a convolutional neural
network might look like.
And I know this seems like there
a lot of hyper parameters.
We'll give you some more
specific suggestions later for
how to choose these types
of hyper parameters.
Maybe one common guideline is to
actually not try to invent your own
settings of hyper parameters, but
to look in the literature to see what
hyper parameters you work for others.
And to just choose an architecture
that has worked well for
someone else, and there's a chance that
will work for your application as well.
We'll see more about that next week.
But for now I'll just point out that
as you go deeper in the neural network,
usually nh and nw to height and
width will decrease.
Pointed this out earlier, but it goes
from 32 x 32, to 20 x 20, to 14 x 14,
to 10 x 10, to 5 x 5.
So as you go deeper usually the height and
width will decrease,
whereas the number of
channels will increase.
It's gone from 3 to 6 to 16, and then
your fully connected layer is at the end.
And another pretty common pattern you see
in neural networks is to have conv layers,
maybe one or more conv layers
followed by a pooling layer, and
then one or more conv layers
followed by pooling layer.
And then at the end you have
a few fully connected layers and
then followed by maybe a softmax.
And this is another pretty common
pattern you see in neural networks.
So let's just go through for
this neural network some more details
of what are the activation shape,
the activation size, and
the number of parameters in this network.
So the input was 32 x 30 x 3, and
if you multiply out those
numbers you should get 3,072.
So the activation, a0 has dimension 3072.
Well it's really 32 x 32 x 3.
And there are no parameters
I guess at the input layer.
And as you look at the different layers,
feel free to work out
the details yourself.
These are the activation shape and
the activation sizes of
these different layers.
So just to point out a few things.
First, notice that the max pooling
layers don't have any parameters.
Second, notice that the conv
layers tend to have relatively
few parameters,
as we discussed in early videos.
And in fact, a lot of the parameters
tend to be in the fully
collected layers of the neural network.
And then you notice also that
the activation size tends to
maybe go down gradually as you
go deeper in the neural network.
If it drops too quickly, that's usually
not great for performance as well.
So it starts first there with 6,000 and
1,600, and
then slowly falls into 84 until
finally you have your Softmax output.
You find that a lot of
will have properties will
have patterns similar to these.
So you've now seen the basic
building blocks of neural networks,
your convolutional neural networks,
the conv layer, the pooling layer,
and the fully connected layer.
A lot of computer division research has
gone into figuring out how to put together
these basic building blocks to
build effective neural networks.
And putting these things together
actually requires quite a bit of insight.
I think that one of the best ways for
you to gain intuition is about how to put
these things together is a C a number of
concrete examples of how
others have done it.
So what I want to do next week is show you
a few concrete examples even beyond this
first one that you just saw on how
people have successfully put these
things together to build very
effective neural networks.
And through those videos next week l hope
you hold your own intuitions about how
these things are built.
And as we are given concrete examples that
architectures that maybe you can just use
here exactly as developed by someone
else or your own application.
So we'll do that next week, but
before wrapping this week's videos just
one last thing which is one I'll talk
a little bit in the next video about
why you might want to use convolutions.
Some benefits and
advantages of using convolutions as
well as how to put them all together.
How to take a neural network like the one
you just saw and actually train it
on a training set to perform image
recognition for some of the tasks.
So with that let's go on to
the last video of this week.